What is the app about?
Pomodoro Timer app servers as a timer for the Pomodoro Technique, a famous time-management and productivity method developed by Francesco Cirillo.
In this method, work is broken down into small tasks. Parallely, time is divided into chunks of several minutes (traditionally 25 minutes), each chunk called a Pomodoro.
A task to be done may span one or several pomodori. Each pomodoro is followed by a short period of break. After certain number of pomodori, a break of longer period is taken.

The method can be followed in the following steps:
1. Decide the task to be completed
2. Start the pomodoro timer
3. Work on the task until the timer rings.
4. Take a short break.
5. After certain amount of pomodori, take a longer break.

The idea here is to concentrate only and only on the task during a Pomodoro.
Any other distraction like a phone call are to be posptponed till the timer ends. They may be dealt with during the break time.
If the distraction is unavoidable, then the Pomodoro has to be abandoned entirely.

How does the app work?

The app provides settings to configure various aspects of the timer.

You may change the durations and alert sounds of
- Pomodoro timer
- Short break timer
- Long break timer

Also, you may configure the number of pomodori after which the long break timer is triggered.

I decided not to use sounds provided by BB10 OS in order to distinguish the alerts.

Traditionally, the technique recommends a
- 25-minutes Pomodoro
- 5-minutes short break
- 15-minutes long break
- long break after 4 pomodori.

After configuring the timers to your liking, start using the timer as explained in the steps.
I recommend turning on the 'Silent' or 'Phone Calls Only' profile while working. The app alerts are played regardless of the profile.
True to the original method, there is no 'Pause' button, but only 'Stop' button to a timer.

Active Frame
When the app is minimized, the active frame displays the name of the current timer and the minutes left in the timer.

Why Tomato?
Pomodoro means tomato in Spanish. This technique was probably named after the mechanical kitchen timers, often shaped like tomatoes.